Hi there, I'm Tom Peperkamp,
a platform product owner.
That's right—platforms
should be treated as products!
Platform Engineering is a
new and rapidly evolving field.
To help you navigate this space,
I've created a video series
that dives into the why,
what, and how of Platform Engineering.
This series pulls together insights
from top quality public resources,
organizing them into focused topics to create
a crash course in Platform Engineering.
Each video is curated to support
your Platform Engineering journey,
offering practical knowledge and insights
to deepen your understanding
of its principles and potential.
Let's get started!
Throughout my talk,
I'll be referencing content from
leading voices in our industry.
A big shoutout to these rockstars
for their amazing blogs
and conference talks!
You'll find all the sources
listed at the end of the video.
These references aren't just for ethics.
They're packed with valuable insights
that I highly recommend exploring.
So if you enjoy this video, definitely
check them out and dive deeper!
Hello, and welcome!
In this session, we'll explore the
concept of Platform-as-a-Product
and why it's a necessity for
platform engineering teams.
We'll answer two key questions.
What is Platform-as-a-Product?
And why should we adopt this approach?
Platform-as-a-Product is
an engineering concept
that recommends approaching
and managing internal platforms
the same way as customer-facing products:
with a product mindset.
Building a successful platform
is far from a walk in the park.
It's a complex endeavor that requires
more than just technical expertise.
As we'll see, simply throwing tools
together doesn't guarantee success
and can even lead to frustration.
In fact, there are many ways
platform initiatives can go off the rails.
So, what does
"platform done wrong" look like?
We can broadly categorize
the pitfalls into two scenarios.
On the one hand, teams are
essentially playing the "rename game",
with siloed knowledge and
little to no developer self-service.
On the other, we have teams
playing "platform as a product"... badly.
Notice how both of these scenarios
point to a breakdown in communication
and shared understanding?
A successful platform requires
more than just the right tools,
it needs a culture that
fosters collaboration and empathy.
That’s why Platform Teams
need to be collaborative,
user-centric Product Teams
in every sense of the word.
Let's dig into what that really means.
Before we dive into what
Platform-as-a-Product is and how to do it,
let's begin with why it's so important.
In our first video on
the evolution of DevOps,
we discussed the phenomenon
of being stuck in the middle,
that frustrating plateau
where teams struggle
to move from medium
to high performance.
We learned that the key to
escaping the middle phase
is a successful platform team approach.
If that sounds like your organization,
I highly encourage
you to revisit that video.
It sets the stage for why a new approach
is needed to overcome this stagnation.
A refresher: ultimately,
the why behind building platforms
at all is to reduce cognitive load.
By abstracting away complexity
and providing self-service capabilities,
we free up development teams
to focus on what they do best,
building and the delivering value.
But here's the catch: not all
platforms are created equal.
If a platform is too rigid
or overly prescriptive,
it can actually increase cognitive
load, defeating its very purpose.
To avoid this pitfall, platforms
need to be compelling.
They should be designed as internal
products that developers want to use.
So how do we escape the
middle phase of DevOps?
A platform doesn't
auto-magically unstuck you.
The key is treating your
platform as a product.
It's about embracing a product mindset,
which involves understanding user
needs, iterating based on feedback,
and continually evolving
the platform to deliver value.
So, what does this
product mindset entail?
A helpful guide is this "Looking
Glass" report from Thoughtworks.
Thoughtworks emphasizes
that platforms should be viewed
as products with customers
that need to be won over.
This requires a compelling
value proposition,
clear roadmap, and dedicated
resources to support those customers.
Like any good product, the
platform needs ongoing attention,
adapting in response to developer feedback
and the ever-changing business landscape.
Similarly, VMware highlights the
importance of understanding
that a platform is not just an
off-the-shelf piece of software.
It's a constantly evolving
set of reusable services
that needs to be integrated
with existing systems
to create valuable
outcomes for your business.
And, importantly, it should be
a recognizable internal brand,
something developers
identify with and trust.
So, I think we're all on the same page.
Treat the platform as a product!
We know why this approach is important:
to reduce cognitive load and
escape the middle phase of DevOps.
And we know what we need to do:
build curated, self-service interfaces.
So, how do we actually apply this
product thinking to internal platforms?
To answer that, let's start
with the first question now
and define what a
Platform-as-a-Product is.
Many of you will be familiar with
this quote attributed to Henry Ford:
"If I had asked people what they wanted,
they would have said faster horses."
The sentiment is that customers
often articulate solutions.
How to solve a problem rather than the
underlying what, the actual need or goal.
Here's the thing: Henry
Ford never said that!
Something that Ford actually said was,
"If there is any one secret of success,
it lies in the ability to get the
other person's point of view
and see things from that person's
angle as well as from your own."
This highlights the essential need to
truly understand your developers' needs.
So, how does this apply
to Platform Engineering?
Simple: when your developers ask
for a specific tool or configuration,
don't just blindly build it. Dig deeper!
Understand the underlying
problem they're trying to solve.
That user-centricity is the key to defining
what a platform as a product truly is.
A platform simplifies something for users.
This is core to its value proposition:
simplifying the jobs to be done that
your developers need to accomplish.
A platform evolves to take
advantage of technology changes.
It needs to stay current and relevant,
adapting to new tools and practices.
A platform is carefully
designed and curated.
Think of it as a well-stocked toolbox,
where every tool has its
purpose and is easy to find.
It is long-lived and evolves over time
in response to the needs
and desires of the users.
It is as important to remove
unused or under-used features
as much as it is to evolve
new features and functions.
A platform should only
do what it needs to do.
A platform is optional to use—no
team is forced to use the platform.
As we'll discuss, mandated
platforms can backfire.
Crucially, a platform
is OWNED by a team.
You build it, you own it, you're
responsible for its success.
And, like any good product,
your platform should have a name!
Giving your platform a name helps with internal
branding and promotes a sense of ownership.
These characteristics highlight that
platforms aren't just about technology.
They're about creating a
valuable and user-friendly product.
That last point, that the
platform is optional to use,
is particularly important
and worth zooming in on.
The reality is that the mandated platform
can actually increase cognitive
load and slow down teams.
If developers are forced to use a
platform that doesn't meet their needs,
they'll find workarounds, leading to
increased complexity and frustration.
So, how can we balance the need
for consistency and control with...
the need to empower
developers and provide flexibility?
Gardner suggests mandating controls,
such as architecture and security,
instead of platform adoption.
This includes enabling teams to choose
to self-comply with these requirements
or follow the compelling "paved
road" of platform engineering.
This ideal approach can work,
but only if governance is in place.
If teams can choose to self-comply,
but there's no enforcement,
they may end up building
uncompliant environments,
viewing the platform as a
burden rather than a valuable tool.
In his blog post, Tom Geraghty highlights
the core premise of Platform-as-a-Product:
to explicitly recognize the platform
as a separate, long-lived system.
It sits between the infrastructure
and customer-facing applications.
To ensure its success, the
platform requires a dedicated team,
well-defined practices,
and a sustainable budget.
This ensures consistency
in the platform layer
while enabling flexibility and
innovation in the application layer.
Hannah Foxwell emphasizes that
"good fences make good neighbors".
Each layer—infrastructure,
platform, and applications—should
own their service in production
and their path to production.
The platform team provides the services
and the application teams consume them.
This helps to clearly
define responsibilities,
which is essential for building
a successful platform product.
Think of the platform product as
consisting of composable services,
or what Kratix calls "Promises".
These Promises are building blocks
with organizational standards baked in,
providing sensible defaults
and supported services
like observability and backup plans.
Promises can be offered individually, similar
to Infrastructure-as-a-Service (IaaS).
Or, they can be combined
into higher-level Promises,
forming Golden Paths within your
internal developer platform (IDP),
to support the entire
software development lifecycle.
The concept of a "platform
product" can feel abstract.
But at its core, it's simply a
well-defined group of services.
These services are provided...
by a service owner...
and consumed by developers
to solve specific problems.
In the context of platforms,
these services...
are your individual XaaS offerings...
and your higher-level promises that
support the entire development workflow.
So, a good platform product
ultimately leads to happy users,
eliminates technology bloat,
and reduces cognitive load.
What are the ingredients for that again?
To build this kind of platform,
you need more than just technology.
You need to apply a product mindset.
This includes developing a clear product
strategy, focusing on developer delight,
iterating based on feedback, and tracking key
metrics like adoption and value delivered.
So, what does it mean to
"apply a product mindset"?
Philip Olivier identifies
six key focus areas:
User engagement & value
delivery, strategic alignment & vision,
collaboration & team dynamics,
data-driven decision making,
ethics & professional development,
and risk management & resilience.
It's about more than building a
technical solution that helps developers.
It's about crafting a valuable
product that they love to use.
Let's see how Olivier's
self-assessment tool
can help identify where your
organization needs to focus.
This self-assessment tool covers those six key
areas with a series of diagnostic statements.
This assessment isn't just
about technical capabilities.
It's also about how we can
how well your team collaborates,
communicates, and
values user feedback.
It's a reflection of your
organizational culture.
By honestly assessing your team's responses,
you can identify strengths and weaknesses
and gain a clear understanding of
your organization's product mindset.
I highly recommend checking it out
and seeing where you can improve.
Here's another view
of the product mindset
through this capability
model which focuses on
functionality, usability,
feedback, and community.
This is a concrete way to
foster a product mindset,
but remember to adapt
it to your specific context.
This holistic workflow demonstrates the
iterative nature of product development.
Structured as a double loop, the left side
"evaluates" ideas and decides on viability.
The right side "realizes"
those ideas in an iterative
build-Launch-Evaluate-Iterate process.
It aligns with common product management
concepts like the "double diamond"
and offers a comprehensive view of
what building a modern product entails.
In this context, collaboration
means understanding user needs
and determining a viable,
value-driven product to match.
Take a closer look at
this model and consider
how you currently do or do or
don't do the mentioned steps.
It's clear that product management
is key to a successful platform.
But, as Matthew Skelton points out,
it can also be one of the trickiest aspects
of adopting a Team Topologies approach.
Given what we've learned so
far about Platform-as-a-Product
and the required product
mindset, it's no surprise!
That "Platform is not easy", remember?
VMware highlights the importance
of having the right people
in the product manager role and
describes several key personas.
It seems that the ideal product
manager combines various qualities:
an alchemist that distills disparate
requirements into a clear vision,
a visionary that isn't afraid
to question legacy thinking,
an influencer that fosters
strong relationships,
and a lean champion that relentlessly
pursues the elimination of waste.
The latter, the lean champion,
is especially important
because maximizing the amount
of work not done is essential;
we want to escape the build trap.
So, the "build trap" is what happens
if we don't treat our
platform as a product.
You might end up
building a "feature factory",
churning out features without understanding if
they are needed or solving the right problems.
To avoid this, we need to follow a
typical product management approach:
understand our users,
make their lives easier,
ruthlessly prioritize, take small steps,
and iterate quickly based on feedback.
Does your organization reward or punish
experimentation and learning from failures?
The answer to that question says a lot about
your readiness for Platform-as-a-Product.
Now, think of your IT department.
Do you see a team lead,
product owner, or another person
capable of making this
platform journey a success?
One of the best ways to avoid the
build trap is to start small and iterate.
To explore that thought,
let's zoom in to the concepts of
Minimum Viable Product (MVP),
Shortest Path to Value (SPV),
and Thinnest Viable Platform (TVP),
to see if they can help us further.
The key thing to remember is
that platforms are brownfield.
Every DevOps team already has a
platform, whether they know it or not!
We don't start companies
with platform teams.
We start with engineering
teams deploying to production.
So, when we intentionally
start building a platform,
we're not in a greenfield situation.
As Wikipedia states,
"Brownfield development describes
problem spaces needing the development and
deployment of new software
systems in the immediate presence
of existing (legacy) software
applications/systems."
This presents a challenge for
the traditional MPV approach.
As Meaghan Waters points
out in this Thoughtworks article,
MVPs are designed to test the market
hypothesis with minimal resources.
This approach works
well in the greenfield,
but not necessarily in
a brownfield situation.
To understand why, let's look at the
idea of hypothesis testing a little deeper.
The Build-Measure-Learn
loop is great for hypothesis testing,
if you're starting from scratch.
But in a brownfield situation, your
DevOps teams have already built something.
So, you need to start with learning.
Cat Morris perfectly captured
this idea with her presentation
"From Greenfield Dreams
to Brownfield Realities",
advocating we adapt
our approach accordingly.
For platforms, we
need to rethink the MPV.
Instead of trying to
build a slice of everything,
Cat Morris suggests focusing
on the Shortest Path to Value (SPV):
enabling a user to complete
one job from beginning to end.
In her words: "think cupcake
over one slice of a big pie."
This "one job from beginning
to end" concept aligns with
the Jobs To be Done (JTBD) theory.
By understanding the underlying "job" that
your developers are trying to accomplish,
you can focus on building a platform
that truly solves their problems.
To clarify that "Job To Be Done",
here are two examples:
"When I need to deploy my
first microservice to production..."
and "When my microservice is
running in production, I want to..."
They also highlight that we should look
at the full software development lifecycle,
not just "Day 1" operations.
User Story Mapping can
be used together with JTBD
to break down that job into
smaller activities and tasks.
The backbone comes from the "Job To
Be Done" and the rest breaks it down.
The key here is a thin,
end-to-end "release slice"
focused on delivering
value quickly: an SPV.
Can you picture a workshop
with your developers,
mapping out their jobs-to-be-done
and defining SPVs for your platform?
So we've talked about how to get started,
focusing on the Shortest Path to
Value instead of using an MVP approach.
But how do we ensure that the platform
itself doesn't become bloated and unwieldy?
That's where the concept of a
Thinnest Viable Platform comes in.
A platform that is just "big enough" to
meet the needs of its users, but no bigger.
Manuel Pais defines a
Thinnest Viable Platform (TVP),
as "the smallest set of APIs
documentation and tools needed
to accelerate teams developing
modern software services and systems."
You might recall the "Lean
Champion" product manager persona,
the need to escape the build trap,
and the previous slide which
emphasizes to keep your platform small.
The goal is to only maintain
the custom platform components
that uniquely improve your
business' ability to deliver value.
Use the SPV concept for new ideas, and the TVP
concept to direct the lifespan of the product.
Matthew Skelton emphasizes that the TVP is
about thinness, to avoid a massive platform.
It remains throughout an
organizational evolution,
whereas MVP is normally the
first stage of something larger.
One key to a thin platform
is avoiding bad abstractions.
You should always
be improving workflows,
not just creating layers of
abstraction for the sake of it.
Make the "getting
started" workflow easier,
remove Day-0 choices
by setting strong defaults,
and use your knowledge of the application
stack to make common patterns easier.
Those are the Jobs To Be Done +
User Story Mapping insights implemented.
But be careful when hiding
existing abstractions altogether!
As Natan Yellin points out,
over time, everyone either reflects the
Kubernetes API or reinvents it poorly.
As Peter Gillard-Moss
from Thoughtworks puts it,
"Platforms are a means
of centralizing expertise...
while decentralizing innovation
to the customer or user."
The centralizing expertise part links directly to
Tom Geraghty's core premise of Platform-as-a-Product:
by focusing on a centralized platform that
truly enables developers to deliver value
in a consistent and reliable
way, you decentralize innovation
and you can avoid building unnecessary
abstractions and keep your platform lean.
Remember, complexity is the result
of requirements and doesn't disappear.
It can only be reassigned.
So, be wary of claims that your platform will
eliminate the need for developers to do something.
Instead, focus on reassigning
that complexity to the right place,
centralizing expertise
where it makes sense.
A platform should be a
foundation that elevates you.
Building on top of it shouldn't
mean starting from scratch,
but building on the creations of others.
As Gregor Hope explains, there are two
ways to approach platform development:
a "sinking platform"
or a "floating platform".
With a sinking platform, you invest
heavily in custom-built components,
but as the underlying base
platform (e.g., Kubernetes) evolves,
your platform becomes
bloated and redundant.
A floating platform, on the other hand,
embraces the Thinnest
Viable Platform principle
and is designed to adapt to
changes in the base platform,
allowing you to shed custom components
and focus on new areas of innovation.
By maintaining a floating
platform that adheres to the TVP,
you can continue to deliver
value to your developers
without duplicating effort or
building unnecessary complexity.
Here are six TVP guiding
principles, as defined by Trade Me,
beautifully summarized
in this illustration.
While Platform, Product, "Just big enough", and
Golden Path are probably clear to you by now,
the Open Contribution Model
deserves some more explanation.
Think of it like an open-source
project within your company.
While the dedicated platform team maintains
the core, anyone can contribute new features.
In consultation with the
platform maintainers, of course,
this ensures the platform evolves to meet
specific needs without unnecessary bloat.
It also guarantees that the
platform is built from real needs,
not from what the platform
team thinks developers need.
Open contribution is about culture.
It isn't just about allowing contributions,
it's about actively encouraging them and
recognizing the value of diverse perspectives.
Is your platform team truly open to
feedback and contributions from anyone?
"Opinionated but Sensible"
is another important trait.
Rather than dictating every detail,
the platform offers sensible
but adjustable defaults,
while organizational standards
are built-in as a convention
for things like security and compliance.
They reduce friction,
simplify complex choices,
and create a smoother
developer experience.
So, start with the Shortest Path to Value,
and then maintain it through
the Thinnest Viable Platform.
How well do these TVP principles
line up with your approach?
We've discussed the
importance of a product mindset
and the SPV/TVP approach
to build a successful platform.
However, all of this will fall flat if you don't
put developers at the center of your strategy.
So, let's zoom in from a
broader product mindset
to a more zoomed-in user-centric one,
using all of the insights
we've gained along the way.
What does it really mean to put
developers in the driver's seat?
It means using software engineering
techniques to manage cloud complexity.
The ultimate goal is to ensure
that developers can stay focused
on writing code, not
wrestling with infrastructure.
That's why, like a
developer-first infrastructure,
it's all about having a
problem-first mindset.
Your Internal Developer Platform must
solve a problem your developers have.
If you can answer yes to the
question of a problem-first approach,
your implementation has solid reasoning,
and the path towards a
great product is much clearer.
Have you clearly defined the
problems your platform is solving?
Let's reiterate: move away from
what impressive tech you can build,
and toward what you
should build, and build that.
Solve problems, and they will come.
If you don't, you'll fall
victim to the build trap,
focusing on technology over value.
Let's look at some examples.
These are just some common problems.
Do you recognize any of them in
your own development workflows?
Or perhaps you're grappling with
other challenges not listed here?
It's important to have
a clear understanding
of these pain points before even
thinking about building a platform.
These product lenses highlight the
three factors you need to consider
to ensure you are
actually solving a problem.
Does the solution solve a real
desire from our end user? (Desirability.)
Is this a sound product, given
current business resources? (Viability.)
Is building this given
current technology feasible?
The desirability lens is the most important
one from a user-centric perspective.
If there's no desire from the end user,
the other two lenses don't matter.
Is there actually a problem?
Is our product solving it?
And perhaps most importantly,
is the experience great?
A platform isn't just a collection of tools.
It's a curated experience for engineers.
The word "curated" implies
the product should be:
selected, organized, and presented
using professional or expert knowledge.
By understanding the developers
and their specific use case,
a better platform will come to fruition.
Great understanding is the
foundation for improved desirability.
Don't underestimate the
knowledge your developers possess.
They are on the front lines,
experiencing these problems first hand.
This isn't just about collecting
feedback through surveys.
It's about true partnership
with application teams.
Develop your platform
with them, not for them.
As you begin developing your platform, strong
collaboration with application teams is key.
And that means more than
just asking them what they want.
It means actively
observing their workflows,
understanding their pain points,
and building trust through consistent
communication and responsiveness.
This collaborative stage evolves into a
more established X-as-a-Service model
with support and
well-written documentation,
but doesn't mean the collaboration
ends; new iterations will follow.
Remember the "A platform evolves to
take advantage of technology changes"?
Building trust early is crucial
to reduce adoption delays later.
The reason for this has something to
do with behavioral economic concepts
like prospect theory or
the endowment effect.
People will value something they
already have more than something new.
You can overcome that bias by helping
people get started by building early trust.
In Team Topologies terms,
we can facilitate initial interactions and enable
developers to adopt the new services later.
However, you need to be aware of
the dangers of platform enablement.
Enabling activities can derail the
platform roadmap, so plan accordingly.
By reserving dedicated
time for facilitation,
like 'planting seeds' as we discussed,
and for onboarding activities,
we can avoid over-commitment of
the platform team in other helping tasks.
A final thought on
developer centricity I share
comes from Gregor Hohpe.
Developers' lives aren't static:
they're going through a learning curve
and also going through a product lifecycle.
They start simple, and then their needs and their
ideas become more sophisticated and more complex,
and the scale of what they
operate might also increase.
With your platform attempts
to make their lives easier,
you'll never get a perfect linear curve.
This is where the trade-offs lie.
Always be aware of what you're doing.
Let's recap what we've discussed so far.
Platform teams take time to establish,
but they drive true impact with
speed, scalability, and consistency.
To unleash that potential, it's crucial
to have a dedicated product manager.
Remember, most platform initiatives fail because
of a lack of focus on organizational dynamics.
You need to explicitly
focus on team interactions,
developer experience, feedback
loops, and product management.
And finally, treat your platform
as a product, not a project.
The folks from Team Topologies
created a platform manifesto
that perfectly summarizes
our key learnings.
Teams and interactions,
adoption and engagement,
and a rich customer experience are
all essential ingredients for success.
So, how well does this manifesto,
along with those TVP guiding principles,
align with your current approach
to building and managing platforms?
Could this guide your
decisions every day?
To sum it all up, in a
Platform-as-a-Product elevator pitch:
treat your internal platform as a product,
understand your developers' problems,
and make their lives easier with
a carefully curated, compelling,
and most importantly,
optional platform product.
Now, join Luca from
platformengineering.org
as he recaps the core concepts
of Platform-as-a-Product for you.
Hi, I'm Luca from the platform
engineering community.
In this video, we're going to
dive into platform as a product,
and how platform teams
can use this approach
to build better self-service capabilities
for application developers and
broadly their engineer organization.
Alright, so first of all, what
is platform engineering?
Well, platform engineering
is the discipline of
designing workflows and
Golden Paths for developers,
so that they can
self-serve the tech and tools
they need to run their apps and services
without having to depend
on their operation colleagues.
The sum of these Golden
Paths is commonly referred to
as an Internal Developer
Platform, or IDP for short.
The IDP is the product that is built
by the platform engineering team
and shipped to the rest
of the org as a product.
So, what do we mean
by Platform-as-a-Product?
Platform as a product
means building, extending,
and maintaining your
Internal Developer Platform
using product management
principles and best practices.
The idea was actually first brought up
in Thoughtworks'
Technology Radar in 2017,
and it was then popularized
among the broader audience
thanks to the book, Team Topologies,
by Manuel Pais and Matthew Skelton.
So, in this context,
Platform-as-a-Product means building
a platform that is customer focused,
with developers as the primary
customers of the platform team.
Having platform engineering
teams take ownership
of the core functionality
of the platform layer
and do internal marketing
to get all the stakeholders
within an organization aligned.
It means assigning product
management responsibilities
that include continuous
improvement activities,
such as road mapping, usage metric
data gathering, and quality monitoring.
And also avoiding the
common phenomenon,
especially in large enterprises
of layering different platform teams
that are split by tech stack.
Following a
Platform-as-a-Product mindset,
the platform built by the platform team
competes against other solutions.
And customers, the developers,
need to experience it as something
significantly better than the status quo.
So instead of building
something on their best guess,
for the platform team, everything
needs to start with user research.
You need to conduct interviews with
developers regarding their pain points,
and figure out what they really need.
You need to identify the actions that
are performed most often and cause pain,
and have a clear user testing
and feedback loops in place.
Then based on this user research,
come up with a roadmap aligned
with your mission statement.
Not to be confused with a
backlog of nice-to-haves.
Now, building a platform is one thing,
but marketing and selling the platform
internally is actually more difficult.
To ensure developer adoption,
platform teams need to use different kinds
of messaging for different kinds of personas.
To treat your platform as a product
ultimately means to ensure
that the platform engineering org
creates value by solving
organizational problems.
You also need to make
sure that your platform team
is building a product that
developers really love.
Quick side comment.
When evaluating whether
to build your own platform
following a
Platform-as-a-Product approach,
it is also important to consider
whether this is the best solution
for your team right now.
If you don't have the budget to
hire a dedicated platform team,
for example, it might not be the
most feasible option for you at the end.
In such cases, adopting a
PaaS, or Platform-as-a-Service
or an end-to-end platform solution
may be more suitable.
It is crucial, however, to
have an exit plan in place
in case you need to transition to
a platform as a product later on.
As your business grows,
you may encounter scalability
issues and increased complexity,
and the PaaS solution
you start using today
can often become
obsolete in a year from now.
This is when shifting to an IDP
built with a platform
as a product approach
can be extremely powerful.
Thank you for watching our video
on platform engineering
and Platform-as-a-Product.
One more thing...
To truly embrace the product mindset,
we need to talk about measuring value.
It's critical to measure the
success of your platform.
How else will you know
if it's delivering value
and truly solving developers' problems?
It sounds obvious,
but it's often overlooked
and far from easy,
especially when it comes to
measuring the success of your IDP.
A key goal of platform engineering
is reducing cognitive load.
But how do you actually measure
something as intangible
as cognitive load?
And how will you then translate that
into a convincing story for the CFO?
That's why Manuel Pais
recommends focusing on the "last mile",
measuring the generated
value of your platform.
This slide demonstrates that
measuring platform value is a journey.
It starts with building trust,
then sharing success stories,
and measuring internal metrics.
The last mile is about translating that
into external metrics that the
entire organization understands
like return on investment,
cost control, and time to market.
If you want to learn
more about this journey,
I highly recommend checking
out Manuel Pais' talk;
I might create a video on
that subject in the future.
The ultimate goal is to
transform internal platforms
from mere technical
solutions into strategic assets,
fostering a collective understanding
and appreciation across stakeholders.
That's what the last mile is all about.
The stuff that platform teams do
is context for application teams.
Things that are necessary, but don't
directly contribute to the customer's value.
But for the platform team themselves,
all of this stuff lies within the core.
It's the reason for being.
By focusing on value creation and
rigorously measuring the impact of platforms
on the amount of time application
teams can spend above the "value line",
You can demonstrate that this platform
team contributes to the company's value
and can be viewed as a strategic asset.
Thank you for watching!
I hope you found this session
insightful and engaging.
If you liked this video,
why not share it with your peers?
Feel free to reach out
if you'd like to discuss platforms
and Platform-as-a-Product further.
Stay tuned for my upcoming video
"From Product Vision to Product Goal",
where we'll explore the
different business objectives
and related potential product goals.
Because you can do
anything, but not everything.
Thank you for sticking around to the end.
The remainder of this
video contains an overview
of all resources used.
There's some great stuff out there,
often with references
to even more great stuff.
Are you ready to go
down this rabbit hole?